# LITA_PROJECTS-Customer Data

This repository will contain my Customer Data-project analyses and visualizations.

## PROJECT TITLE: Customer Data

### Project Overview 
---
This Data Analysis Project aims to generate insight into the subscription patterns and revenue generated from the customers of an organization over the past 2 years. Analysing the paramaters in the data, I sought to gather enough insight to make reasonable decisions, enabling me to tell a compelling story around the data from the insight gotten and to determine the best performance from the data.
---
### Tables of Content
[Data Sources](#Data-Sources)

[Data Collected](#Data-Collected)

[Tools used](#Tools-used)

[Data Cleaning and Preparation](Data-Cleaning-and-Preparation)

[Exploratory Data Analysis.](Exploratory-Data-Analysis.)

[Data Analysis](Data-Analysis-Visual-Analysis-and-Inference)

[Visual Analysis and Inference](Visual-Analysis-and-Inference)

[Recommendation](Recommendation)

---

### Data Sources

The primary source of data used is an Excel datasheet provided by the LITA Data Analysis Team.

### Data Collected 

1. Customer Id: A unique identifier assigned to a customer, it helps in efficient customer management and tracking
2. CustomerName: This is used to identify and address individual customers.
3. Subscription Type: The terms and conditions of a customer's recurring payment or service agreement.
4. Region: The geographical area where the business operates.
5. Subscription Start: The date when a customer's subscription becomes active.
6. Subscription End:  The date when a customer's subscription becomes terminated.
7. Revenue: The income generated by a business from its normal operations, such as sales of a product or service.

### Tools used
- Microsoft Excel for Data
-  Cleaning, Analysis and Visualization.
- Structured Query Language - SQL for Querying of data.
- Power Bi for Visualization.
- GitHub for Portfolio Building

### Data Cleaning and Preparation.
After obtaining the dataset, the following action was performed;
1. Data Loading and Inspection.
2. Handling missing variables.
3. Data Cleaning and Formatting.

### Exploratory Data Analysis.
EDA involved the exploring of the data to answer some questions about the data;
- What is the total number of customers from each region?
- The most popular subscription type by the number of customers.
- The average subscription duration for all customers.
- The total revenue by subscription type.
- The top 3 regions by subscription cancellations.
- The total number of active and canceled subscriptions.
It provides insight into subscription trends, subscription type popularity, and customer behaviour.

### Data Analysis
These are some of the codes, queries and formula used in the course of the analysis;

```SQL
SELECT Region, COUNT(DISTINCT CustomerID) AS Total_Customers FROM `customer data` GROUP BY Region; 

SELECT CustomerID FROM `customer data` WHERE SubscriptionEnd IS NOT NULL AND DATEDIFF(SubscriptionEnd,SubscriptionStart) <= 180; 

SELECT CustomerID FROM `customer data` WHERE SubscriptionEnd IS NOT NULL AND DATEDIFF(SubscriptionEnd,SubscriptionStart) > 365;

```

```EXCEL
SUBSCRIPTION DURATION = SubscriptionEnd - SubscriptionStart.

```

### Visual Analysis and Inference












